---
title: Three Coaching Spots With Leo Now Open
banner_image: life_coach.jpg
thumbnail: life_coach.jpg
---

> “Stop acting so small. You are the universe in ecstatic motion.”

> **― Rumi**

My friends,

I’m opening up two spots for my 1-on-1 coaching service, which is aimed for those who would like to start changing their lives, shifting their patterns, and starting true transformation.

I’m looking for people who:

- **Are doing meaningful work:** You’re creating, you’re starting a non-profit, you’re volunteering, you’re changing lives, you’re serving a team or community, you care about the people you’re serving.
- **Are being held back by their patterns in uncertainty**: Your meaningful work is filled with uncertainty, which brings up habitual patterns … maybe you put things off, you try to control everything, you feel overwhelmed, you feel anxiety, you shrink away from public speaking or putting your work in public, you take on too much, you play a smaller game than you should, you feel resentment, you run to comfort and distraction, you don’t delegate. Maybe not all of these, but possibly a few of them.
- **Are ready to take action and commit to training:** I’m not looking for someone who will sign up and then not actually do the training. Maybe you’ve put things off before, but if you sign up with me, I want a commitment that you’re going to make the time to do the training, show up fully for the calls and your practices, and be all in.
- **Are not afraid of mindfulness practices and are willing to go deeper:** You’ve meditated for a little bit now, and don’t mind going deep into mindfulness practices, being vulnerable, being radically honest, and opening up to new training.
- Are ready to commit some time, effort and money into something meaningful: What is so important to you that you’re ready to commit a significant amount of time, effort and money to it?

Is that you? What is meaningful to you? Who do you care deeply about? What change do you want to create in the world?

## How the Training Works

We’ll start with a free call, to get to know each other, and see if it’s the right fit. You won’t be under any obligation after the call. Then I’ll send you a proposal, and if you sign on, we’ll commit to training together.

Then we’ll meet twice a month, on video call, and dive into your patterns, what’s holding you back, what you want to create, and how you can train to shift those patterns. We’ll work flexibly, but with commitment and accountability.

I’ll give you practices/assignments to do between calls — this is where the real change takes place. You’ll log your training, and I’ll give you feedback on your log so that you can adjust the training if needed.

Then we’ll see what magic happens.

Ready to train with me?

Apply here today for one of the two spots.

## Client Testimonial
Here’s a testimonial from one of my recent clients:

> “I had the usual goals to start with (more mindfulness, more discipline, less procrastination – you name it) which I have been aiming at – and missing – for a long time. Leo’s kind and extremely open approach made me feel safe and capable of sharing honestly my wins and failures. During our work together, Leo helped me to flank the obstacles that was resisting my futile head-on attacks. Due to the coaching experience, I am more capable of picking the right battles, distinguishing the important from irrelevant and accepting discomfort as a natural part of the journey.”

> — **Ales Balcar, trainer for Amazon.com**
